			     EE 109 - Spring 2021
		     Lab 6 - Analog to Digital Conversion

Edit the document below to fill in your answers to the review problems at the
end of the assignment web page.


1. (3 points) Review the conceptual operation of an ADC and use the given
parameters to find the desired value.

  a. Your 8-bit ADC has Hi and Lo reference voltages of 1V and 4V, what digital
  number would result from sampling a 2.0V?
  85


  b. Your 5-bit ADC has Hi and Lo reference voltages of 0V and 5V, what input
  voltage would yield a digital number of 12?
  1.875V


  c.  Your 6-bit ADC has a Lo reference voltages of 2V. A voltage is sampled at
  2.4V and the digital result is 26. What was the Hi reference voltage used by
  the ADC?
  7.9V



2. (1 points We want you to feel comfortable reading documentation to
understand the operation of a device. To that end, open the ATmega328/P
datasheet linked on our website from the Tools and Links Page and go to chapter
28 regarding the ADC. Read over the register bit descriptions of ADCSRA and
ADCSRB in sections 24.9.2 and 24.9.4, respectively. In addition, skim through
section 28.4 and view the timing diagrams.

Now consider what effect setting the ADATE bit of ADCSRA to a 1 will have,
assuming you don't modify ADCSRB from its default reset value. Briefly describe
what the ADC module will do.

Setting the ADATE bit of ADCSRA enables the Auto Triggering of the ADC, starting
a conversion on a positive edge of the trigger signal. If ADCSRB has default values,
then the default bits select the default source that triggers an ADC conversion in the ADCSRA.

This auto triggering mode provides a method of starting conversions at fixed,
configurable intervals.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			   Operation of the Circuit

Please record a video of you demonstrating the operation of the circuit
that shows the following aspects of the game on the LCD.

1. Show the splash screen at the start that shows your name.

2. Show that the 'X' is in a different position each time the game is started.
Sometimes it may come up in the same position, but it should not always be in
same place.

3. Pressing the left and right buttons move the 'X' along the top row.

4. Rotating the potentiometer moves the '^' along the bottom row.  It should
move smoothly and evenly from one end to the other, and not do something
like move all the way with only the first half of the rotation.

5. Show that moving the '^' under the 'X' for a time less than two seconds does
not win the game.  It should be possible to do this more than once to show that
the time under the 'X' is not being accumulated.

6. Moving the '^' under the 'X' and leaving it there for two seconds or more
should cause the game to be won.

Paste link to lab demonstration video below:



